Welcome to my video series on the Command Line.
Now this video series is really designed for
either if you're a developer that's very new
to using Command Line, or maybe a designer
that needs to use Command Line,
generally kind of frontend web folk
who know they have to use Command Line
kind of dip in every now and then.
Don't really like the whole area or experience,
they just want to get the job done.
This series of videos compliments my A Book Apart book
on the Command Line, but it just has some hands on things.
I will show you actually what it looks like on the computer,
and I'll be kind of holding your hand
throughout this whole series.
I bought myself a brand new Mac here,
and the first thing is I want to open Command Line.
Now how many times have you gone to a tutorial
and it said, just open the Terminal.
How do you just open the Terminal?
Well let's head off to Finder.
Now obviously is you have Windows or Linux
is slightly different.
I have a separate video on that,
and if you go to Finder,
really what they're referring to is
the Terminal application.
Now your find that in the Applications group,
but it's not in this main group.
You have to go ahead and go to Utilities,
so down here.
Every Mac comes with a folder called Utilities,
and in there are a whole bunch of diagnostic programmes
and tools, but also most interestingly
is the Terminal.
Now I'm gonna go ahead and drag that to my dock
just to make it a little bit more reachable
next time around.
I'm gonna go ahead and click on it,
so let's get rid of this and open the Terminal.
Now that my Terminal is open,
this is kind of the default view
if you haven't made any changes.
Not that friendly to be fair,
but you have a white screen instead of a black screen
which is Mac's way of trying to be a bit friendlier.
We can resize the window to whatever we want,
and also we can bump the font size up.
I generally have the font a little bit bigger
just because I like it on my eyes.
Now this by itself isn't that useful.
Now the default Terminal,
the Mac revise is okay.
It has tabs so for Command T I can get another tab.
It has a few other features,
but there's a much better tool for working in the Terminal.
Now the tool that's my preference
is something called iTerm,
so I'm just going to show you that now.
This is the iTerm website.
It's a Terminal emulator,
or a Terminal just like the Terminal application
except it's called iTerm.
It has a few more features that we'll be making use of,
in particular you've got things like split screens
and you can if you'd like animate gifs.
You can have 'em appear inside the Terminal as well.
We're going ahead and download that,
and just put that down in my dock
like I have the Terminal programme,
and we'll come back once that's down.